Adding console metrics coverage. (#382)
momentohq/public-dev-docs: docs/manage/basic_metrics.md

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Basic cache metrics
pagination_prev: null
description: Basic cache metrics
---

> # Basic cache metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Basic metrics for Momento Cache
```

> When you're developing and operating applications with Momento Cache, you'll want visibility to effectively diagnose bugs and optimize your caching performance. Momento provides an hour of basic service-side metrics to all customers via the service console - these are aimed at facilitating troubleshooting and tuning. This page describes the metrics provided within the console and makes recommendations on deriving value from them. If you're an enterprise with critical dependency on Momento Cache, we recommend partnering more closely with the Momento team for support and delivery of detailed historical metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When developing and operating applications with Momento Cache, you'll want visibility to effectively diagnose bugs and optimize performance. Momento provides an hour of basic service-side metrics to all customers via the Momento console, aimed at facilitating troubleshooting and tuning. If you're an enterprise with critical dependency on Momento Cache, we recommend partnering more closely with the Momento team for support and delivery of detailed historical metrics.
```

# Metrics within the console

> Within the Momento Console, you can visit the cache metrics dashboard by selecting the small bar graph icon in the menu at left as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the Momento console, you can visit the cache metrics dashboard by selecting the small bar graph icon on the left nav menu, as shown below.
```

![image](/img/metrics_select.png)

> The available metrics cover cache data plane operations only (control plane operations such as creation or deletion of a cache are not included), and for the preceding hour. The metrics presently show an aggregation for all the caches in your Momento account - a capability to filter to a particular cache is planned for the near future. You can view point data for any given minute by hovering over the bubble for that minute in the line graph. Metrics display typically lags behind by a minute or two.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The available metrics cover cache data plane operations only (control plane operations such as creation or deletion of a cache are not included), and for the preceding hour. The metrics presently show an aggregation for all the caches in your Momento account. You can view point data for any given minute by hovering over the bubble for that minute in the line graph. Metrics display typically lags by a minute or two.
```

![image](/img/metrics_tps.png)

## Byte count (data volume in/out of your Momento caches)
This line graph represents the number of bytes transferred in or out of your Momento caches summed over the one minute period. The total byte count transferred over the most recent hour is also shown in the top bar. You can use this to understand the level of application activity within your caches. If you don't see anything here, you're not using any caches and should check the operational health of your application and the logic within your code! The information on data transferred can be used to get an estimate of the throughput your applications are driving to your caches, which can tell you what your cost expectations might be for the month. Looking at both the TPS and the byte count metrics can also give you rough information about cache item size.

![image](/img/metrics_bytecount.png)

## Errors and successes

> This graph tells you about the number of error and success responses from Momento for application requests to your caches. It can be viewed as a percentage or as a raw count of responses for the minute. If you are seeing an elevated level of errors, dig closer into your application logs to better understand the cause. Elevated error rates can be an indicator that your application requests are being throttled by Momento due to encountering a [service limit](limits.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This graph tells you about the number of error and success responses from Momento for application requests to your caches. It can be viewed as a percentage or as a raw count of responses for the minute. If you are seeing an elevated level of errors, dig closer into your application logs to better understand the cause. Elevated error rates can be an indicator that your application requests are being throttled by Momento due to encountering a [service limit](./limits).
```

The build was complaining about the link. I fixed it above.

![image](/img/metrics_success-error.png)

## Hits and misses (hit rate)

> This graph tells you how well your application is applying caching - you want to see a nice high rate of hits versus misses. Factors which can affect your hit rate include the TTL chosen for your items and your strategy for populating the cache (you need to write the items into the cache if you expect to find them there next time you make a read). The higher the hit rate you achieve, the greater the benefit you'll see from caching. However, you should also balance this against the staleness of the data your application is working with if you are using long TTLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This graph tells you how well your application is applying caching - you want to see a high rate of hits versus misses. Factors that can affect your hit rate include the TTL chosen for your items and your strategy for populating the cache (you need to write the items into the cache if you expect to find them there next time you make a read). The higher the hit rate you achieve, the greater the benefit you'll see from caching. However, you should balance this against the staleness of the data your application is working with if you are using long TTLs.
```

For the TTL part here, is it worth linking to our docs page about TTLs?

![image](/img/metrics_hit-miss.png)

### FAQ's
<details open>
  <summary>How can I see metrics for one particular cache?</summary>
Hang in there - we plan to add this capability in the near future.
 </details>

<details>
<summary>How can I get metrics for more than an hour?</summary>

> For production, we recommend partnering with the Momento team for support - this includes publishing of detailed metrics into your observability tooling (presently CloudWatch but more options to come). With delivery of detailed metrics enabled, you can build alarms and dashboards in accordance with your operating standards.

Reviewer: Does this mean this functionality is only available for those hosted in AWS? No GCP?

Author: Right - presently CloudWatch is the only option.
